                       BarCode
                       ~~~~~~~

By Richard Wareham

 BarCode is a program that, suprisingly enough, 
allows you to create barcodes on the computer. 
BarCode will output in a variety of file formats.
These are Draw, Sprite and its very own BarCode
format. It is worth noting at this point that
BarCode can only load its own file format.

 To run BarCode simply double click on its icon
in the directory display. It will install itself on
the icon bar as usual. If you examine the icon bar
menu (press the middle button over the icon on the
icon bar) you will see four options. You will
probably know what most of these functions do. To
run the main part of the program simply click the
left button over the icon. This will present you 
with a main menu. The options are :-

Information
~~~~~~~~~~~
 This displays the Information Screen.

Start a New / Edit Current Barcode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 This leads to another menu that we will explain in
a moment.

Display Current Barcode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 Displays the current barcode.

Save Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~
 This leads to another menu where you can select
what file type you wish BarCode to output. Your 
current selection is displayed at the top.

Quit
~~~~

 This returns you to the desktop.

The 'Start a New / Edit Current Barcode' Menu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
 This menu is invoked by selecting the 'Start a New
/ Edit Current Barcode menu option by pressing 
select over it. This menu has these options :-

Set Article Number
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 The article number is the number that appears BELOW
the MAIN barcode. This means that any numbers to the
right or left of the main chunk of black and white
MUST be discounted. Most article numbers are twelve
digits in length. The program will only accept input
of twelve numbers so don't try pressing return after
typing only ten numbers. BarCode will ask you if the
above number is correct and if not it will allow you
to input it again.   

Set A and B sets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 This allows you to specify the number that normally
appears to the LEFT of the barcode. This number 
describes what pattern of number sets (see file 
named 'NumberBars' in the Examples directory) the
barcode will use. These are always in the form

  XXXXXX CCCCCC

where the XXXXXX stands for the pattern of 'A's and 
'B's that appear next to the number. The menu has
an option 'More ->' at the bottom. This leads to 
another menu with the remainder of the numbers and
'<- Back' in it. '<- Back' will take you back to the
first menu. Both menus have the option 'Back to New
Barcode Menu'. This will take you back to the 'Start
a New / Edit Current Barcode' menu.

View Current Barcode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 Same as the 'Display Current Barcode' option on the
main menu. 

Back to Main Menu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 This takes you back to the main menu.

IMPORTANT
~~~~~~~~~
 Due to the structure of this program it is
VITAL to keep the disk in the drive when jumping
from the desktop into the main program and when 
using the icon bar menu.

Loading
~~~~~~~
 As said before BarCode con only load BarCode files
as only these hold enough information to recreate
Barcodes. There are two ways to load a BarCode file,
these are double clicking on it and dragging it from
the directory display onto the icon.

Tutorial
~~~~~~~~
 During this tutorial we will be using the program
to create a barcode like the one in the files
'BarCodeDrw', 'BarCodeSpt' and 'BarCode' (they are
found in the Examples directory). View the files
'BarCodeDrw' and 'BarCodeSpt' now by double-clicking
on them. Don't double-click on 'BarCode' as this 
will only load itself into the program and will not
immediatly reveal istelf.

 To start with load the program up by double-
clicking on it as normal. Now click ONCE on the icon
to bring the main menu up. Select 'Start a New / 
Edit Current Barcode'. Now select 'Set Article
Number' and type the following :-

  123456789012

Respond to the question 'Is this correct (Y/N)' by
typing 'Y'. Now select 'Set A and B sets' from the
menu. Move the mouse to '0) .. AAAAAA' and click
select. Select 'Back to New Barcode Menu' and 
then select 'View Current Barcode'. If all has gone 
well, you should see your barcode in all its glory.

 Now you will be wanting to save. Navigate your way
back to the main menu and select 'Quit'. Don't 
worry, your wonderful new barcode has not been lost
you will be saving from the Desktop. Click the 
middle button over the BarCode icon and move across
on 'Save ‰'. You should see a standard save box and
a picture of a pencil and a barcode in the box.
Alter the default name 'BarCode' if you want and 
save in the normal manner by dragging the icon to
a directory display.

 Now we will learn how to save as a Drawfile. It's
very easy. Go back into the main program by clicking
on the icon and salect 'Save Options' from the main
menu. Now select 'Save as Drawfile' from the menu 
return to the main menu by selecting 'Back to Main
Menu'. Now if you select 'Quit' and look at the save
box you will see that the picture of a pen and a 
barcode has been replaced by a drawfile icon. You
can the save using the exact same procedure as 
before and save out as a Drawfile. The procedure is 
exactly the same for Sprite saving except you have
to select 'Save as Sprite'.

 That ends our brief tutorial. 

Aknowledgements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 I would like to thank Michael Attenborough for
submitting his program MakeDraw in Acorn User Dec
1992. I used these routines extensivly in the 
Drawfile saving part of the program.
 